---
layout: ""
page_title: "Provider: Assert"
description: |-
  The assert provider adds a datasource to implement an `assert_equal` in terraform.
---

## Assert Provider

The assert provider adds a datasource to implement an `assert_equal` in terraform.

### But why?

Mainly for compliance. Imagine you have 3 ec2 instances configured in terraform, and you need
to be sure you have only these 3 instances running in your AWS account.

```
resource "aws_instance" "instance1" {
  ...
}

resource "aws_instance" "instance2" {
  ...
}

resource "aws_instance" "instance3" {
  ...
}
```

You can validate there is no undeclared instance with:

```
data "aws_instances" "all" {
  filter {
    name   = "vpc-id"
    values = ["<your_vpc_id>"]
  }
}

data "assert_equal" "no_undeclared_instances" {
  current  = sort(data.aws_instances.all.ids)
  expected = sort([aws_instance.instance1.id, aws_instance.instance2.id, aws_instance.instance3.id])
}
```

### What happens when the assertion fails

The terraform operation (`plan` or `apply`) will throw an error if `fail_on_assert` is set to `true`. This is the default behavior.

Instead of failing, the provider can publish a message to an [AWS SNS](https://aws.amazon.com/sns/) topic. To do this, you have to

* Setup AWS authentication. The simplest way is to use an [AWS IAM Instance profile](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_roles_use_switch-role-ec2_instance-profiles.html). But [any method](https://aws.github.io/aws-sdk-go-v2/docs/configuring-sdk/#specifying-credentials) supported by the Go AWS SDK v2 will work.
* Set 'sns_topic_arn'
* The message can be customized by providing [Go templates](https://pkg.go.dev/text/template) in `sns_subject_template` and `sns_body_template`. Available variables are
  * `Message`: The error message from the failing assertion
  * `Current`: The current value
  * `Expected`: The expected value

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Optional

- `fail_on_assert` (Boolean) If true, any assertion failed will through an error in the provider
- `sns_body_template` (String) Template to build the body of the message for SNS notifications
- `sns_subject_template` (String) Template to build the subject of the message for SNS notifications
- `sns_topic_arn` (String) SNS topic ARN to be notified in case of error